Collection Framework In Java :- 
	It is collection of pre-defined classes and interfaces using which programmer gets the flexibility of storing any type of elements and any number of elements in program.

Collections are supposed to store objects.

All classes and interfaces of collection framework belong to java.util package.

List Collection :-

1) any number of elements and any type of elements can be stored.
2) It uses indexing to store elements.
3) Insertion order of elements is maintained.
4) Element can be added at and removed from any position.
5) duplication of elements is allowed.

If read operations are going to be performed more often than the write operations , then ArrayList should be used.

If write operations are going to be performed more often than the read operations , then LinkedList should be used.

Vector and Stack have become legacy classes , their better alternatives are present in the form of ArrayList and ArrayDeque class respectively.

Vector and Stack are by default thread-safe whereas ArrayList and ArrayDeque are not thread-safe. 

Set Collection :-

1) any number of elements and any type of elements can be stored.
2) It does not make use of indexing to store elements.
3) Insertion order of elements is not maintained.
4) duplication of elements is not allowed.

TreeSet is going to sort all elements added into it in ascending order.

Objects of only such classes can be stored in TreeSet which have implemented java.lang.Comparable interface.


Queue Collection :-

1) any number of elements and any type of elements can be stored.
2) It does not make use of indexing to store elements.
3) FIFO order is followed for adding and removing elements.
4) Insertion order of elements is maintained.
5) duplication of elements is allowed.


Map collection :-

1) Map stores entries where each entry is made up of <key,value> pair.
2) It does not make use of indexing to store entries.
3) Insertion order of entries is not maintained.
4) Key can not be repeated , if key is repeated value gets replaced.

	<page_number,topic_name>
	
	Using key we identify value in map.
	value : object to be stored in map




 